 History of angular:
1.In 2010 first version of angular is came which is called as angular js. (based on java script)
2.In 2016 second version of angular is came which is totally diff from first one. (based on typescript)

What is mean by angular:
Angular is a javascript framework which allows us to built single page application.

What is mean by Single page application:
when we do any work it will render on single page . and when we edit something or when we want to switch from one to other then we can switch without reloading 
our page.A single-page application is an app that works inside a browser and does not require page reloading during use.
[single page application is an web page application in which all information is stored only in single page ad when we want to switch from one to other 
then it can switch without reloading the page.

What is mean by CLI(Command Line Interface):
Command line interface is a tool which is used to initialize,develop Angular applications directly from a command shell.
that means for example if we want to create any componant then we can create it just by  writing command in command shell so that we did not require 
to write any code for that.

*App componant is the root componant of our application
*in ts file our logic is written 

What is mean by componant:
Componant is nothing but a simle typescript  class in which we can write our own methods,properties according to requirments which will used to bind with our UI.
There are total 4 files in componant:
1.html file-in this we write code for ui
2.spec file-in this we write test cases
3.scss file-in this file we write css code
4.ts file-in this file we write our logic, methods

What is mean by data binding:
data binding is a technique in which data is binded between ts and html file. because in ts file we write logic methods and result of that we have to 
display to user on page and for that we have to do data binding.
--Types of data binding:
1.One way data binding:
In one way data binding result in ts file is displayed in view .
a)string interpolation-{{note}}
b)property data binding-[recivedlist]=note
c)event binding
2.Two way binding:
in this type result in ts file is displayed in view and any udate in view is displayed in ts file.
a)[(ngModel)]- in this there are [] and () bracket which indicates property binding and event binding res.
  when we do two way binding data get updated both in ts and html.



Event binding:
In this aany update in view is shown in  ts file.
In event binding when we click any button event take place.
It is a tech in which action is performed on any event.Clicking any button is also a event so when we want to call any method just after clicking 
 butten  then that time we use event binding.

Data sharing:
types of data sharing-A) Child to parent B) Parent to child C) Unrelavent data sharing
A) Child to parent data sharing:
To pass data from child to parent componant we have to use event emitter and output decorator.
B)Parent to child data sharing:@Input decorator is used
C)Unrelavant data sharing:
It is done when we have to share the data betaween two componants which are siblings,grandchildren and for this we use services to share data.


Decorators:
it is indicated by giving @ at start means at prefix.
It is used asa function.
It passes metadata to angular about class,property and methods etc.
Decorators are invoked at runtime.
Examples of Decorators:
1.@ngModule-It used to define module
2.@Componant-it defines componant
3.@Input and @Output- This decorators are used to send and recieve data to view(DOM). When we have to comunicate between componants like parent to child and child to parent then we use
these decorators.
4.@Injectable-this is used to define services



Directives:
this are used to change the appearcnce and behaviour of dom.
There are 3 types of directives-
1.componant directive-componant directive created dom
2.structural directive-these add or remove element from dom   
3.arrtribute directive






fxLayout-It is a directive used to define the LAYOUT OF HTML ELEMENTS.
ngOnInit()-this method is called when componant is initialized.


Ideation task------
https://meet.google.com/aju-wqir-hsm?authuser=0

https://xd.adobe.com/view/d096df37-ca37-4026-553f-8cfa6bec09ec-a6a7/grid/
 


JWT Token-
Jwt token is used for transmitting information between two parties.it restrict unwanted access .
when we send token to any api it will decode and validate it before sending response.


Controller-It is class in which http methods are written. It handles http requests and send corrosponding response.When frontend sends any req then
it recieves by controller andcontroller go  in model to get data from models if required ad then return data to perticuler view in the form of response.

Cookies-It is used to identify user.When user enter email and password server generate seesion id for thar perticular user and that 
session id will store in cookies. so next time when user logins then browser identify user easily.data stores permanantly.

Session Storage-It is used tto mantain state between pages.Means if there is on e loine welcome sampada and we want that line on every page then we store that in session storage and after that that line will come
on every page.the data stored in seesion storage will exists till browser is openif we close browser the data in that will lost.

Local Storage-
It is used to store data permanantly.
If we close the browser then  also that data exists untill we delete it manually.
so in our application we stored token so when user login or hits login api it will directly go into the local storage and uses that token.


https://htmltocss.github.io/