Major Components of .Net framework:-
1.CLR(Common Language Runtime)- It is the runtime execution engine of .net. It act as interface between operating system and .net application.
                                                                 It loads and executes the code.
                                                                 It manages the memory.
                                                                 It converts the intermidiate code into native code.
                                                                  It handles the exceptions.
(After writing he code we have to execute the code but without CLR we cant execute our code)
   a.CLS(Common language specification) -(It provides syntactical rules and regulations to languages) Every language has there own syntatical rules .
                                                                           One language can not understand the syantx of other language.
                                                                           In .net freamwork so many languages are used and every language has their own syntax. Compiler convert that
                                                                           that code into IL that can be as per CLS hence it is understandable by CLR. and then it executes the code.

   b.CTS(Common Time System)                - (It provides data type rules and regulations to languages)Every launguage has their own data type and 
                                                                          one language can not understand the data type of another language.
                                                                          so Compiler convert that data type as per CTS  it is understandable by CLR. and then it executes the code.

2.BCL/FCL(Base class library / Framework Class Library) - It is divided into two types: 1.Pre-defined class library (It comes under the system namespace)
                                                                                                                                                       2.User defined class library(Assembly)
-When class library creates it creates two files dll (dynamic link library) and exe (executbale file).dll file can be reusable in any other applications.